QUESTION :  DISCUSS WHETHER DIGITAL SCENT TECHNOLOGY HAS THE POTENTIAL TO IMPACT JAMAICA AND REST OF THE REGION

ANSWER

INTRODUCTION

This paper will attempt to provides and give a clear analytical knowledge of Digital Scent Technology through the electronical interface on
past and present issues for commercial and domestic effect using chemical odors and the impact of the harzardous environment in Jamaica and the
rest of the region.  I will discuss few matters that affect our nation and the general Caribbean, North and South Americas and the rest of the
world. DST will have an impact on our life forever.  Jamaica is affected with DST impact in the following ways: education, music, movie,
entertainment, video, gaming, health, and many other ways we all use technologies and the internet.

Jamaica as well as the rest of the world encountered DST smelling of chemical reaction and psychological impasse that disturb our emotional
pattern and scenses.  The Caribbean region is a part of a global village and the spirit of scenting and smelling is a worldwide issue. In this
paper, I will embark upon some practical application aspect of DST which will deal with digital communication scenting, marketing  and our 
well-being.  This discussion will also highlight few issues that will affect Jamaica in relation to this scenting of Digital Technologies and the
converging of other technological tools. The use of the Internet, IoT, IoS and E-Nose explain the growing issue thet have an impact of our 
surrounding. The impact of all other technologies is a part of the process of the functionality of Digital Scent Technologies.

DST RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE IMPACT OF JAMAICA AND THE CARIBBEAN IN THE FUTURE

It is a fact that DST and the observation of symbiotic relationship between the impact of Jamaica and the Caribbean in the future will suffer 
chemical reaction of technologies of the IoS and E-Nose with the use of other internet services, such as, 3D, 4G, and 5G. I realised that the
interactionism of 6G is fast becoming a reality and this connecting link is now the primary activator of the multisensory expenses the world 
will face. DST is an intertwined communication space  on the Internet of Things that pave the way for the collective transfer of sharing the
five scenses, that we utilize seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting and feeling. 

The human computer interaction (HCT) community consider digital olifactory stimulation as a real-life interactionism to be a fundamental step
in broaden the technology relating to multisensory communication. In the Carbbean, the Digital Scent Technology is manipulated  by the growth
of market is driven by growing adoption of E-Noses in food industry for process monitoring, freshness evalulation, and authenticity assessment,
rising adoption of compact, portable, and IoT - enabled E-Noses, growing development of E-Nose devices for diagnosing diseases, and inte-
gration of E-Nose and synthesizers into smartphone homes.




JAMAICA AND THE REGION - DIGITAL SCENT TECHNOLOGY ECOSYSTEM

The region as well as Jamaica have impact on Digital Scent Technology where the growing adoption of E-Nose in many industries are engaged
base upon the growth of drivers in the drivers in the market for immersive technologies in the areas of sensory driven immersion, mixed
reality headset, virtual auto, concomitand development of business model, increased use of digital environments for communication and 
education in the Covid 19 pandemic encounter and also in avenue where computer game where research for education and entertainment involvement.
The industries are Amphenol, Sensirion, Renesas, Alphasense, Sciosense, Ecosensor, and Honeywell.

In Jamaica E-Noses objective analysis to be compared to regions are based on inspection, and early detection of spoilage and contamination,
improved shelf-life management, and streamlined production control.  The following island in the regions suffer similar fate, such as,
Barbados, Cuba, Curaqao, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Haiti, Puerto Ricoa, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Suriname, Trinidad
and Tobago.  Caribbean countries consented to participate in a survey and the disparity in the geographic representation involved two most
significant contribution were from Trinidad and Tobago and Jamaica, representing approximately 73% of respondents whereby no other island 
in the Caribbean has 50% or more respondents.

In the Caribbean as well as the rest of the world, the scaling challenges develop, as the upkeep equipment costs make widespread deployment
in large spaces or across multiple locations challenging.  The DST ecosytem of E-Nose provider entailed the following industries: Alpha Mos,
Airsense, Sensigent, MUI, E-Nose, and Smart Nanoltubes. The DST Ecosystem software and platform providers are Aryballe, Plasmior and Noze.
These regional companies help to solve the DST Ecosystem of the several markets and hardware device that will enable system integrators
to manipulater the Caribbean importation of scenting and cleaning with high technologies to overcome disparities in the region, by adopting 
commitment to healthcare, and provide opportunities for technology adoption through the end users, such as, IBM, Panasonic, KAO, Givandan,
and NHK World - Japan.  

DST has a potential impact on Jamaica and the rest of the world through the distributor of PCA Technologies, Envitech, Bioclear SPN BND, and
Verislam Scientific Limited.  These companies increase the potential benefits of healthcare and safeguard humanity from the disparity reaction
of harzardous interferance, that engender environmental safety and regional bonds.  Healthcare expenditure has increase rapidly in Jamaica and 
throughout the world and this has propel patients to safeguard themselves from dangers.  The growing enhancement of patient care are diagnosis
the following hardware devices, MediCare, Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, Immersive Medicial Technology, and Technology for your Success.

HEALTHCARE IN THE CARIBBEAN AND TECHNOLOGY ADOPTION

The expenditure for healthcare in the Caribbean has increase rapidly and this has propelled the importance of patient care, and treatment
processes.  The impact of DST digital solution with the integration of E-Noses can offer substantial increase in medicine and medicaid
spending further underscores in government's commitment to healthcare, providing opportunities for technology adoption.

The medicial segment to the market share protray many different Digital Scent Technologies, such as the technology that operate skin emission,
exhaled breath, and urine odor have created attention as diagnostic biomarkers of diseases and disorders, including liver disease, lung
cancer, diabets, asthma, cystic fibrosis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  Volatile organic componounds are the major target for
E-Noses in medical diagnosis, such as ammonia in individuals with liver disease, acetone for patients with diabetes, and alkanes in patients
with lung cancer, pentane in patients with asthma.  The E-Nose technology has the potential to be operated for diagnosis.

THE POTENTIAL IMPACT DST HAVE ON JAMAICA AND THE REGION

The psychological processes inside our bodies are influence by the trigger of our bio-sensing activity and this is one of the applications that
is being used regularly in healthcare industry. In the Caribbean and also throughout the world medical doctors used Biosensors in the
healthcare industry to recognize and track processes of sickness by viewing vidoes, and the critical analysis of physiological mechanisms.
These machines are received from North and South America, Mexico, Canada, Europe, and the rest of the world. From one time to the next, 
increase demand for quality control in food and poultry products may ocurr with the impact surge of several research activities on E-Nose
Technology for media, medical and agricultural application.

THE MAJOR VENDORS IN THE DIGITAL SCENT TECHNOLOGY COMPANIES INCLUDE

1.    Siemen  (Germany)
2.    Amphenol Corporation (US)
3.    Sensirion AG (Switzerland)
4.    Honeywell International Inc. (US)
5.    Renesas Electronic Corporation (Japan)
6.    Alpha Mos (France)
7.    Envirosuite Limited (Australia)
8.    Electronic Sensor Technology (US)
9.    Aromajoin Corporation (Japan)
10.   Figaro Engineering Inc (US)
11.   Bosch Sensortec GmbH (Germany)
12.   Alphasense (UK)
13.   Sensigent LLC (US)
14.   Airsense Analytics GmbH (Germany)
15.   Scentsational Technologies LLC (UK)
16.   Scent Sciences (US)
17.   The eNose Company (Netherlands)
18.   Comon InVent B.V (Netherlands)
19.   Mui-Robotic (Netherlands), and many more.















